a US Secretary of State Anthony blinkin
is calling on the Israeli government to
carry out an investigation into the
killing of the aid workers have a
situation where people who are simply
trying to help their fellow human beings
are themselves at grave
risk uh we' spoken directly to the
Israeli government about this particular
incident we've urged a swift a thorough
and impartial
investigation to understand exactly what
happened Heidi Jo Castro joins us now
from outside world Central Kitchen
headquarters in Washington DC what are
you learning over there
Heidi Sarah the CEO of world Central
Kitchen has issued a statement calling
this a targeted attack and I'll read to
you from her statement saying this is
not only an attack against World Central
Kitchen this is an attack on
humanitarian organizations showing up in
the most dire of situations where food
is being used as a weapon of War this is
unforgivable the words from the CEO of
the world Central Kitchen which is a
relatively new Aid organization in Gaza
but it really made headlines and by
making some bold moves most notably
constructing that Jetty off of the coast
and being the first organization to
successfully deliver food aid from that
Maritime Corridor some 200 metric tons
of food were distributed were delivered
rather in March and they were it was in
the midst of Distributing this food that
according to the world Central Kitchen
that these seven workers were killed in
that Israeli military strike they had
just left a warehouse where they were
moving some of this uh food and were're
also learning more about their
identities one of them was a dual US
Canadian citizen uh several British
citizens as well as an Australian Ian
Citizen and of course a Palestinian as
well and they said that they were
working in a deconflict Zone and moving
in coordination with the Israeli
military when despite all that this
attack occurred Heidi I'm curious
because we just heard from the Israel
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu on
this and his answer is essentially oops
yes it was us but we didn't intend to do
this it's tragic we we'll do our best
not to do this again have the Israeli
authorities been in touch directly with
World Central Kitchen about
this you know the world Central Kitchen
says it's awaiting an investigation it
is unclear how closely they're in touch
with the Israeli military about this
investigation but they were supposedly
they said that they were doing this in
coordination that every movement of this
Caravan had been done in coordination
with the military that they knew what
was happening and obviously these
vehicles that were hit were clearly
marked as belonging to this or
organization and notably this is not by
far the first humanitarian Aid workers
that have been killed in Gaza since this
conflict began there have been actually
close to 200 of them and now the world
Central Health kitchen is saying that
they are immediately suspending their
operations after this occurred which
means another ship that is just floating
off the coast of Gaza carrying 400
metric tons of food Aid now is sort of
in limbo it's unclear how that food or
if that food will be delivered to the
millions of people who are now on the
brink of famine in Gaza and this has had
a chilling effect on other Aid groups in
the region um project hope which
operates medical clinics in Rafa has
also issued a statement saying it is
suspending operations for at least the
next three days well absolutely and that
context is crucial Heidi thank you so
much for reminding us of that that so
many Aid groups have either um slowed
down or completely stopped their aid
operations because there have been so
many attacks on Aid deliveries that's
Heidi Jo Castro reporting from
Washington DC